**Title**: Designing the Future of Black Hole Imaging via Learning  

**Speaker**: Katherine Bouman  

**Abstract**: This talk will present the methods and procedures used to capture an image of a black hole from the Event Horizon Telescope, as well as discuss future developments for black hole imaging. Imaging a black hole’s structure requires us to reconstruct images from sparse, noisy, measurements collected from a global network of telescopes. Synergies between the development of new instrumentation and image reconstruction techniques led to the first image of a black hole, M87*, in 2019. However remaining scientific questions motivate us to improve this computational telescope to see black hole phenomena still invisible to us. This talk will discuss future developments, including deep variational Bayesian imaging techniques for uncertainty quantification and how we are developing machine learning approaches to help optimize the design of future telescope arrays.  

**Biography**: Katherine L. (Katie) Bouman is a Rosenberg Scholar and an assistant professor in the Computing and Mathematical Sciences, Electrical Engineering, and Astronomy Departments at the California Institute of Technology. Before joining Caltech, she was a postdoctoral fellow in the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. She received her Ph.D. in the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) at MIT in EECS. Before coming to MIT, she received her bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan. The focus of her research is on using emerging computational methods to push the boundaries of interdisciplinary imaging.
