**Title**: Towards holistic neural encoding models for multi-modal naturalistic stimuli

**Speaker**: Meenakshi Khlosa

**Abstract**: Brain activity recordings of healthy subjects during “free viewing" of movies present a powerful opportunity to build ecologically sound and generalizable models of sensory systems, also known as encoding models. Deep neural networks trained on image or sound recognition tasks have emerged as powerful models of computations underlying sensory processing in the brain, surpassing traditional models of image or sound representation based on Gabor filters and spectro-temporal filters, respectively, in mid-level and higher-order visual and auditory brain regions. While this success is promising, existing encoding models based on deep neural networks have been limited in their focus on limited portions of the sensory space under naturalistic stimulation, ignoring the complex and dynamic interactions of modalities (audio and vision) in this inherently context-rich paradigm. Longer narratives or movies further have an inherent temporal structure; much of the meaning we infer is from stimulation sequences rather than from instantaneous visual or auditory stimuli alone. In this talk, I will discussmy current research with predictive models of cortical responses that aims to capture several critical inductive biases about information processing in the brain: namely, hierarchical processing, assimilation over longer timescales, attentional modulation and multi-sensory auditory-visual interactions. I will describe our recent efforts in modelling these phenomena in models of the brain and will share our latest findings from this novel computational approach. 

**Bio**: Meenakshi is a PhD candidate in the Electrical and Computer Engineering department at Cornell University, working with Mert Sabuncu and Amy Kuceyeski. Prior to that, she obtained a B. Tech-M. Tech dual degree in Electrical Engineering at the Indian Institute of TechnologyKanpurand worked as a postgraduate research associate at the Yale School of Medicine. Her main research interest lies in the intersection of neuroscience and artificial intelligence, primarily focusing on understanding the nature of representations and computations in the brain.
