
**Title**: Learning with Limited Labeled Biomedical Images

**Speaker**: Donglai Wei

**Abstract**: Deep learning methods can achieve impressive results when trained on large-scale labeled biomedical images. However, there is only limited labeled data in many biomedical image domains due to the costly annotation and the large-scale test data. In this talk, I will present how to leverage biological objects' structural priors to improve deep learning methods for connectomics, the 3D reconstruction of brain circuits (neurons and synapses) at nanometer resolution. First, for synapse detection, I will discuss exploiting the cluster structure to improve deep active learning (ECCV 2020). Next, for neuron segmentation, I will present our work on building and optimizing a biologically-constrained graph over initial 3D neuron segments for error detection and correction (CVPR 2018). With these methods, we have curated two labeled public datasets for different tasks that are 100x larger than the prior art in connectomics.

**Bio**: Donglai is a research associate in the Computer Science Department at Harvard University, working with Hanspeter Pfister and Jeff Lichtman. He received his Ph.D. in the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) at MIT in EECS under William Freeman. His research focuses on developing object detection and segmentation methods for large-scale biomedical images (e.g., [Connectomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connectomics)) and natural videos.
