
**Title**: Synthesis of Brain Maps using Deep Learning

**Speaker**: Gia Hoang Ngo

**Abstract**: Neuroimaging has unraveled several mysteries of the brain and advanced our understanding of the human mind. Nonetheless, it is not always possible to acquire imaging results at both population and individual levels. We hypothesize that such missing pieces can be filled in by advanced predictive models and big data. In one such approach, we proposed BrainSurfCNN, a surface-based convolutional network that can accurately predict individualized task contrasts from resting-state functional connectivity. We will also discuss Text2Brain, a search engine for brain activation maps from free-form text query using coordinate-based meta-analytic data.  

**Biography**: Gia is a 4th-year Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Cornell. Previously, Gia received his B.Eng from the National University of Singapore (NUS). His research interests are in individualized prediction of neural phenotypes using machine learning. Previously, Gia worked with Prof. Thomas Yeo at the Computational Brain Imaging Group in NUS on new Bayesian models for coordinate-based meta-analytic data. Gia has also worked with Dr. Nancy Chen at the Institute of Infocomm Research, Singapore on natural language processing problems in limited resource scenarios. Besides research, Gia is the director of engineering at GIVE.asia, a free-of-charge fundraising platform for medical emergencies, children in need, and other charitable causes in Asia
