# Modelling Probability Distributions using Neural Networks and Applications to Medical Images

Christian Baumgartner

## Abstract
Much of the current research on machine learning for medical image analysis is performance centred. However, as the performance of predictive algorithms is starting to equal humans -- at least on isolated tasks -- it is becoming increasingly clear that translation into clinical practice is not straight-forward and poses many new challenges. For instance deep learning algorithms are notoriously sensitive to distribution shifts, are not capable of flagging up their own failures, and do not account for inherent ambiguities in the input images. The language of probability theory offers an excellent tool to reason about these problems in a principled fashion. In this talk, I will talk about some of our recent works where we have used probabilistic machine learning approaches to overcome some of the above limitations.

## Biography
Christian is a researcher in medical image analysis focusing on the combination of probabilistic methods with the representative power of neural networks. His first exposure to medical images was during his Master thesis at Harvard Medical School (Laboratory of Mathematic in Imaging). Christian then went on to obtain his PhD at King's College London in the Division of Imaging Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, before starting at position as post-doctoral researcher in the Biomedical Image Analysis group at Imperial College London. It was there that he started working extensively with deep neural networks. In 2017, Christian obtained a Post-doctoral Fellowship at ETH Zurich where he started focusing increasingly on probabilistic machine learning methods. Since 2020, Christian has shifted his focus to computer vision as he started a position as research engineer at PTC Inc., where he is working on augmented reality applications. 
