
**Title**: Improving Conditional Deformable Template Construction with Generative Adversarial Registration

**Speaker**: Neel Dey

**Abstract**: Deformable templates are essential to large-scale medical image registration, segmentation, and population analysis. Further, the accurate modeling of diverse image populations may require the estimation of multiple templates conditioned on continuous and/or categorical attributes. However, current conventional and deep network-based methods for template construction use only regularized registration objectives and often yield templates with blurry and anatomically implausible appearance, thus confounding downstream biomedical interpretation. In this talk, we will reformulate conditional template estimation and deformable registration as an adversarial game wherein we encourage realism in the moved templates with a generative adversarial registration framework conditioned on flexible image covariates. The resulting templates exhibit significant gain in specificity to attributes such as age and disease, better fit underlying group-wise spatiotemporal trends, and achieve improved sharpness and centrality. These improvements enable more accurate population modeling with diverse covariates for standardized downstream analyses and easier anatomical delineation for structures of interest. We will present conditional templates for both a neonatal T2 image set of pre-term and term-born infants and an adult T1 dataset of normally-aging controls and subjects with Huntington's disease.

**Bio**: Neel Dey is a soon-to-be fifth-year Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the ViDA center at New York University and is advised by Guido Gerig. His research interests broadly span group-equivariant networks, generative adversarial learning, deformable registration, and their applications towards improving performance, generalization, and sample efficiency in biomedical image analysis. He has been fortunate to have worked across several imaging problems and modalities including structural and diffusion brain MRI, retinal OCT, low-field MRI, digital pathology, and multi-spectral fluorescence microscopy.
